---
route_name: NorthEast Ramp
type:
  trad: true
YDS: 4th
fa: unknown
metadata:
  legacy_id: '113105872'
---
# Description
Big views of both the west Red Rock peaks and the city of Las Vegas.Some nice hiking terrain past the biggest seasonal-pond (tinaja) in the Calicos. Finish with some thoughtful scrambling to the wide summit plateau with at least one (smaller) "tank" ortinaja(seasonal pond / basin that catches rain-water).details:From the W side of the rock outcrop (N36.1608 W115.4378) by Calico Tank Pass, go about 70 feet NW, at first on the hiking trail, then traversing scrambling on rock, to reach the left (E) side the ramp (N36.1608 W115.4382). The ramp rises up to the north, and looking downward it aims at the biggest "tank" ortinajain the Calicos.North up the ramp, reach a narrow section with a fun sequence to the left with hands on a positive rail. Continue up the ramp (gentler) and keep looking for the easiest spot to exit right up through the short wall along the right (W) side of the ramp. What worked for me was around (N36.16035 W115.43805), with a sequence of about 20 feet on slopy holds, to reach gentler area with a couple of long rocks (4ft x 1ft) with a bush in or on or by them -- good to take a moment to remember this for getting back down later - near (N36.16030 W115.43810).. . . (some might say only 3rd class, but especially for people unaccustomed to down-climbing on slopy holds, could seem harder or at least scary).From here can hike WNW about 130 feet to an East summit around (N36.1604 W115.4386). From there can find your way more or less SW about 170 feet to a West summit around (N36.1601 W115.4389). Somewhere between those, might find atinaja.descent:Return the same way.In case you climbed up by a different route, some details ...From the east summit around (N36.1604 W115.4386), go about 130 feet ESE to around (N36.16030 W115.43810). Look carefully for a couple of long rocks (4ft x 1ft) with a bush in or on or by them, in a gently-sloping spot. Descend the face below on slopy holds, steeper for about 20 feet, to reach a gentle ramp.South down the ramp and reach a steeper narrow section. Find a positive "rail" for hands and use that go right a couple steps. See the big "tank" /tinaja(depression that catches rain-water) far below. Scramble N down toward that. The shortest way to reach the main hiking trail is to tend toward the right E side, and when get down to around (N36.1608 W115.4382), traverse Right SE to hit the trail near the rock outcrop (N36.1608 W115.4378) Calico Tank Pass.warning: Many loose rocks and weak breakable hand- and foot-holds on and around this route - (even when the rock plenty dry). The rock becomes especially weak for a couple of days after significant rain or snow, so holds are even more likely to break off.# Location
From Sandstone Quarry parking (GPS lat long approx N36.1622 W115.4502) on the Red Rock Scenic Loop road, hike on the Calico Tanks trail (unmarked) for 0.4 mile (650 meters) at first N, then NE, then E - (where the Turtlehead Peak trail goes left, continue on the Right following the Calico Tanks trail). Around (N36.1666 W115.4481) the trail curves more right and climbs 0.7 mile / 1.1 km SouthEast, rougher with more rocks and zig-zags, to reach the Calico/Tank Pass (approx N36.1608 W115.4380). Just at the pass is a higher rock with a view to Las Vegas. Might be a better view a short ways up the SSW face climbing route, but if some members of the party are tired, this outcrop serves as a nice "top" -- if did not quit already at the sight of the big tinaja pond (N36.1612 W115.4381) about 200 ft NW below and before the Pass.. . It also it possible to start from Calico Basin parking (outside the Scenic Loop road), but this is more difficult climbing, or much longer, or both.# Protection
No fixed hardware for anchor or intermediate protection.Protection for trad leading is unknown.