---
route_name: The Shuffle
type:
  trad: true
YDS: 5.13a
fa: Local Badassery.
metadata:
  legacy_id: '110029974'
---
# Description
Ever wonder about the wicked arete featured in the poster at Desert Rock Sports? The Shuffle is it.Begin 100' right of the start of Epinephrine.P1, P2, P3: As for Texas Hold 'Em. Scramble 50' up and left across 5.0 ledges just left of a huge, hanging left-facing dihedral high above. Optional Belay on a large ledge with lots of bushes, otherwise: scramble left through the bushes to a small left-facing corner, up this and then traverse back right across a slab to a higher, small, left-facing corner/arete. Up this, passing a bolt, and continue more easily to a great belay ledge with bolted anchor. 130' to this point and a good place to stop and belay. Or, with an 80m rope, continue. From here, head up the slab above, then diagonal rightwards across the slab (#2 or #3 Camalots in horizontals) until reaching the previously mentioned huge, hanging left-facing dihedral just above a tree. Climb this to near it's top where there is a bolt up and left and another one up and right (the righthand one is situated above a shelf). Either way goes, but I find the righthand variation both easier and more direct. Belay just above at a good ledge with a bolted anchor. 260' to this point. Continue up the left-facing corner right of the belay to a huge, bushy terrace. Cut right through the bushes and belay on gear below a water-polished groove/crack feature at the right end of the terrace. 400' to this point and most of the climbing on these pitches checks in at 5.8.P4: Climb up the water-polished groove, but where Texas Hold 'Em moves left, continue up and right. Eventually this path dead-ends at a roof; step left to a mini-arete and follow a seam up to a bolted anchor beneath the business. 80', 5.10.P5: Climb the amazing arete via some thin and possibly reachy moves, keeping mostly to the left side of the arete to a small rooflet and stance. Gather yourself and move right around the arete to the radically overhanging side and bust a few powerful moves before grabbing the brick and swinging back left. Continue through a v-slot to an airy belay perch. 8 bolts and an optional #2 Camalot protect, but an attentive belay is essential as falls from high on the crux could land you on the ominous slabby wall behind you. Fantastic climbing. 5.13a, 80'.P6: The original route heads straight up from the belay(*), but the way we finished was via the incredible Golden Desert pitch: Move left off the belay, clipping a bolt to access a steep, exposed flake system. Committing climbing up these large and sometimes hollow features brings the climber a few good rests and ultimately to a cruxy thin crack that is difficult to protect. Higher the crack opens up and accepts better gear and more of one's fingers. A rightwards crack switch and a romp up blocks leads to the penultimate belay station on Tri Tip. Wild position. 5.12a PG13, 150'.Rap with two ropes or with a single 80m plus some shenanigans.(*)The original route is as follows: From the belay above the crux arete, climb a thin, left-facing flake feature (5.11?, 75') and then trundle up to a belay on a comfy ledge. From this belay, head up a splitter tips and fingers crack (5.13a?, 75'), stepping left via some face holds to an easier corner which leads to the same belay above the Golden Desert pitch.N.B. There is a rather fragile and important hold on the 5.13 pitch where one turns the corner that has already broken once - use care. Hint: this is a foothold - don't even touch it with your hands.# Location
# Protection
10 or so draws & slings. 1 or 2 sets of cams from fingers to #3 Camalot. A set of RP's.