---
route_name: Fleeting Boldness
type:
  trad: true
YDS: 5.10-
fa: Royal Magnell & Kyle Willis / Nov 2015
metadata:
  legacy_id: '111304885'
---
# Description
Pitch 1: This is a bit of an approach pitch. Follow gully up to base of the crack system that begins the business pitch of the route. Mostly 4th class, till a large chockstone, tunnel behind this or climb a rail system to the left till one comes to a second chockstone. Climb over the second chockstone or the rock to its right and belay at a bushy ledge. 100 feet, 5.7.Pitch 2: The business. Off the ledge climb a #2 handcrack and stem to get over a small wedged boulder. Leave the crack and climb around a bush growing in the crack via thin face holds on nice varnish slab. Continue up left leaning #1 handcrack either via jamming or laybacking. Continue up crack as it quickly widens to #5s, and climb twenty feet of perfectly parallel tipped out #6 off width. A #3 big bro would be perfect here. It is possible to layback this. Climb the beautifully smooth varnished squeeze chimney. Without large big bros or valley giants a very large runout is necessary. The easiest way to climb the chimney is right side in and to go all the way back into the chimney. Climb the chimney past some smallish chockstones reaching a ledge large enough for two climbers. 200 feet 5.10 –Pitch 3: The elevator shaft pitch. Climb up crack via stemming and face moves to a hole created by a large chockstone reminiscent of Frogland and tunnel through to the ledge created by the mass of blocks. These blocks are more stable than they appear from below. Belay at spacious ledge formed by blocks and enjoy the view. 60 feet 5.9Pitch 4: Either climb the off width directly above the belay (5.10) or climb the horizontal slab ramp on the right (5.7) further back from the belay. If one chooses the second option a nasty swinging fall is possible but the climbing is easy, the only gear is a decent horizontal #6 in a hueco. Follow the crack / gully system further up on heavily huecoed rock (5.7) through a few bushes. Belay at a long ledge. 160 feet 5.7 or 5.10Pitch 5: Walk to chimney in the back of the ledge and climb it to the top. No gear. If one went further back into the chimney gear is possible but it may be harder climbing. 60 feet 5.7...........If one squeezes all the way back in the chimney, the optional gear larger than #6 might not be necessary. I led it with nothing larger a BD #6 and wanted bigger gear – but I stayed too far out in the chimney and had my left side in, which made it harder.My partner and I have some disagreement about the grade. He says 5.10b/c and I say 5.10 - . Climb it and let us know. I think it’s a pretty good route but I’m rather biased. The business pitch is excellent, if a little spicy. The chimney has stellar varnished rock reminiscent of Epinephrine but much tighter. Larry DeAngelo and John Wilder attempted this line a long time ago and bailed perhaps 50 feet into pitch 2. Larry couldn’t remember why they bailed, but we found his bail hex – the only sign of previous climbers. Larry encouraged us to give it a go. His encouragement was a big reason we finally did the route. Big thanks Larry!# Location
Approach: continue up canyon on cliff band past Purblind Pillar to base of route. This route is before Lean Lady.Walk off same as Lean Lady and all other routes on Angel Food wall.# Protection
Rack: doubles BD 0.5 - #6 / recommended #3, #4, & #5 Big Bros or valley giants (would eliminate the R rating)