---
route_name: The Hook
type:
  boulder: true
YDS: V2+
fa: ''
metadata:
  legacy_id: '119595272'
---
# Description
This is a route my buddy Aaron and I put up because it was really late and our gym was closed. I marked each hold used in the route with a small tick mark with a sharpie (don't worry, they aren't noticeable unless you are really looking for them). I also marked the start holds (it is a two hand start) separately with a little "v2" next to them. PS- we decided that this would be an 'arete off' problem to add to the difficulty, so no using the formation itself, only the holds!Link to video of FA (this might be the most helpful beta), Sorry for terrible quality:photos.app.goo.gl/Vs23RzbkG…Detailed Beta (when I say "span" I am referring to the three concrete sections extending from the middle column of "The Grapnel"):Warning: This beta is EXTREMELY detailed, boring, and confusing. You might be better off making your own route. I just figured I'd post it in case I forgot the sequence but if you can figure out the description below it is a really fun route (and quite difficult considering what it was set on).You start sitting on the ground facing the inside wall of the span closest to the splash pad. Your two starting hands are marked and your feet are the only two holds low enough to the ground to be used. Pull yourself up and reach for either of the two marked higher left hand holds. Reach your right hand out really far to a hold on the edge of the span closest to the basketball court/swings. From those two high handholds on the opposite spans, swing out from the left span to the right span and quickly set your right foot on a low hold on the inside wall of the right span. Then pull/swing yourself under the span and reach for a left hand hold high on the other edge of the same span. Then set your left foot in a heel hook under your left hand. Drop your right hand through to a hold on the middle column. Move your left hand to a high hold on the edge of the next span and put your right foot in a heel hook where your left hand just was. Then grab for a high hold on the other edge of the span and swing your whole body to set a right foot heel hook on the edge of the span you started on. Set a toe pull on the hold above the heel hook with your left foot and adjust your hands to lower holds. Then drop your left foot to your original right foot hold. Then move your right hand to where your foot just moved from and switch your feet. Pull through to set your left hand on a hold on the other edge of the span and top out by hanging from the top of the formation with the "X" mark.# Location
The route is set on "The Grapnel" formation next to the basketball court.# Protection
Crash pads if you are scared of a 2 foot fall.