---
route_name: Beta Blocker Corner
type:
  trad: true
YDS: 5.10d
fa: unknown
metadata:
  legacy_id: '116585131'
---
# Description
Pitch 1: From the bolted rap station just above the 200 foot waterfall, chimneyhorizontally upstream in the slot canyon just above the water, until a rock step blocksprogress. Stem right to a slippery, awkward corner, then go straight up to a belay atopbig blocks. (90 feet, 5.9+)Pitch 2: From the blocks, scramble upstream 30 feet, then head left, to the base of thecanyon wall. The prominent black corner begins about 90 feet above the canyon floor.To reach it, climb fragile, difficult face (5.10d), about 15 feet to the right of a rotten, widechimney system, clipping 2 pro bolts. Go straight up to a foot stance with 2 rap/belaybolts. (80 feet, 5.10d). Some of this rock is fragile; pro can be challenging to place dueto the steepness.Pitch 3: This is a magnificent pitch. Go straight up the corner, with wild stemming oversmall roofs. Be careful with the fragile pillar at the beginning. There is a small ledgewith 2 rap/belay bolts at the top of the pitch. (90 feet, 5.10a)Pitch 4: Climb a classic chimney with 2 tight squeeze sections, to a comfortable ledgewith 2 rap/belay bolts. There is adequate pro on the pitch. (90 feet, 5.9)Pitch 5: Creative stemming leads up this beautifully varnished, exposed corner to 2rap/belay bolts on a ledge to the right (90 feet, 5.9).Pitch 6: Step left to the hueco’ed corner/chimney and climb this to the top of theformation; there is one loose block which should not be touched. (70 feet, 5.7). Pitches 5and 6 can be combined.Descent: Rappel pitches 2-6 with one 60 meter rope. Rappel pitch 1 via canyoneers’threaded slings. Rappeling the lower waterfall requires two 60 meter ropes.# Location
Location: In Ice Box Canyon, above the obvious 200 foot waterfall which lies a fewhundred yards left of Frigid Air Buttress. Beautiful walls rise on the left (southeast) sideof the drainage just above the waterfall. This route climbs the most prominent,varnished, right-facing corner/flake, which begins in a flat area about 60 feet above theinitial 200 foot waterfall. The corner is not visible from the floor of Ice Box Canyon; onemust be above the 200 foot waterfall to have a good view. Access this route by climbingto the end of The Sanctuary’s two traverse pitches, then scrambling 20 feet down into theslot canyon above the waterfall.# Protection
Rack: Doubles to #4 Camalot. Bring a light selection of nuts.